Lambchop, originally Posterchild, is an American band from Nashville,
Tennessee, formed in 1986. Frontman and primary songwriter Kurt Wagner
has remained the project's sole constant member across multiple line-up
changes. The band's current line-up also includes Andrew Broder
(keyboards), Ryan Olson (brass, woodwind), C.J. Camerieri (brass,
woodwind) and Tim Purnell (drums). Lambchop is loosely associated with
the alternative country genre. Initially indebted to traditional country,
the music has subsequently moved through a range of influences including
post-rock, soul and lounge music.

Across Lambchop's forty years, there have been several significant
collaborators, with the project mostly consisting of a large and fluid
collective of musicians focused around its creative centre, Kurt Wagner.
Former longtime members and collaborators include guitarists Paul
Niehaus, Mark Nevers, William Tyler and Alex McManus; bass guitarists
Marc Trovillion and Matt Swanson; keyboardists John Delworth and Tony
Crow; multi-instrumentalists Deanna Varagona and Jonathan Marx; and
drummers Allen Lowrey, Charles Scott Chase, Paul Burch and Scott Martin.
Other former collaborators include drummer Andy Stack and Yo La Tengo's
James McNew.

The band has released seventeen albums across its career, with its most
recent, Punching the Clown, released in August 2026 to widespread
critical acclaim.


Description and history
-----------------------

Initially formed as a three piece in 1986 with Kurt Wagner, bassist Marc
Trovillion and guitarist Jim Watkins with the name Posterchild. They
released some low-fi bedroom recordings on cassette such as I’m Fucking
Your Daughter. In 1992 they released a split 7” with Crop Circle Hoax
which got the attention of entertainment lawyer George Regis, who sued on
behalf of the similarly named band Poster Children. After trying a few
different names they settled on Lambchop and signed to Merge Records in
1993 releasing their debut single Nine that year.

Whatever the style, the characteristic mood of Lambchop's music is evoked
by Wagner's distinctive songwriting: lyrically subtle and ambiguous, the
vocals melodic but understated. American Songwriter described Wagner's
lyrics as "witty and deeply insightful."

They were the backing band for Vic Chesnutt on his 1998 album The
Salesman and Bernadette.


Personal lives
--------------

Singer Kurt Wagner is married to founder of Nashville 90's record store,
Lucy's Record Shop and Tennessee Democratic Party leader Mary Mancini.


Personnel
---------

Summary of members as credited on studio albums (1994–present)

Former bass player Marc Trovillion died of a heart attack in October
2013, aged 56.
